hi and welcome to the first video on the
nervous system we're going to break
these videos into three separate series
this first series is going to take a
look at the histology of the nervous
system
so we'll take a look at the neurons and
the Nergal yeah the second series of
videos we'll take a look at the larger
structures in the nervous system for
example the brain in the spinal cord and
the third series we'll take a look at
these special senses so let's begin by
taking a look at the histology of the
nervous system this series of videos but
let's begin by first describing what is
the nervous system the nervous system is
composed of the brain the spinal cord
and the nerves to the rest of the body
you'll notice that on that graphic we
had the CNS and the pns the CNS stands
for the central nervous system while the
p NS stands for the peripheral nervous
system and we'll get into that into a
lot more detail when we start talking
about the second series the larger
structures of the nervous system the
function of the nervous system is to
regulate the body it controls the body
it's your thinking it's your brain it
controls your body activities this is
going to control the body now little
heads up when we talk about the
endocrine system the endocrine system
also controls the body but it does a few
different means so for us the nervous
system is composed of the brain the
spinal cord and the nerves to the rest
of the body and its job is to regulate
the body we're gonna break things down
even further by looking at the histology
so the nerve system is composed of two
general types of cells we have the
neuron ie the nerve cell and the
neuroglia which is the nerve glue these
are supporting cells we'll start with
the building blocks of the nervous
system and work our way up from there so
let's begin in our next video by taking
a look at the neurons themselves the
portions or the parts that make up the
neuron
yeah